apps/roam/README.md, before:

<picture>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/54299890-47b2-44f8-beed-738a49eb53cc">
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/099e3134-b6b5-47d9-997f-df34426e4cde">
  <img alt="Shows project promo image in light and dark mode">
</picture>

The Discourse Graph extension enables Roam users to seamlessly add additional semantic structure to their notes, including specified page types and link types that model scientific discourse, to enable more complex and structured knowledge synthesis work, such as a complex interdisciplinary literature review, and enhanced collaboration with others on this work.

For more information about Discourse Graphs, check out our website at [https://discoursegraphs.com](https://discoursegraphs.com)

## Table of Contents

**WIP**

- [Discourse Graphs](https://discoursegraphs.com/docs/roam) documentation
- [Query Builder](https://github.com/DiscourseGraphs/discourse-graph/blob/main/apps/roam/docs/query-builder.md) documentation

## Nomenclature

There are some important terms to know and have exact definitions on since they will be used throughout the docs.

- `Page` - A Page is anything in Roam that was created with `[[brackets]]`, `#hashtag`, `#[[hashtag with brackets]]`, or `Attribute::`. Clicking on these links in your graph takes you to its designated page, each with its own unique title, and they have no parent.
- `Block` - A bullet or line of text in Roam. While you can also go to pages that have a zoomed in block view, their content is not unique, and they always have one parent.
- `Node` - A superset of `Block`s and `Page`s.

## Analytics & Privacy

The Discourse Graphs extension uses PostHog analytics to help us understand how the extension is being used and improve it. We take privacy seriously and:

- Do not track encrypted graphs
- Do not track offline graphs
- Do not automatically capture page views or clicks
- Only track specific user actions like creating Discourse Graph nodes, running queries, and using the canvas

This minimal tracking helps us understand how researchers use the extension so we can make it better while respecting your privacy.

Commit message:

WIP: claude-generating testing framework

apps/roam/README.md, after:

<picture>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/54299890-47b2-44f8-beed-738a49eb53cc">
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/099e3134-b6b5-47d9-997f-df34426e4cde">
  <img alt="Shows project promo image in light and dark mode">
</picture>

The Discourse Graph extension enables Roam users to seamlessly add additional semantic structure to their notes, including specified page types and link types that model scientific discourse, to enable more complex and structured knowledge synthesis work, such as a complex interdisciplinary literature review, and enhanced collaboration with others on this work.

For more information about Discourse Graphs, check out our website at [https://discoursegraphs.com](https://discoursegraphs.com)

## Table of Contents

**WIP**

- [Discourse Graphs](https://discoursegraphs.com/docs/roam) documentation
- [Query Builder](https://github.com/DiscourseGraphs/discourse-graph/blob/main/apps/roam/docs/query-builder.md) documentation
- [Query Builder Testing](https://github.com/DiscourseGraphs/discourse-graph/blob/main/apps/roam/docs/TESTING.md) - Test harness for query builder development

## Testing the Query Builder

The Query Builder includes an in-Roam testing harness that lets you test queries against real data without mocking. This is particularly useful for testing changes to the query builder, benchmarking performance, and ensuring backward compatibility.

### Quick Start

1. Create test pages with titles starting with `discourse-graph/tests/queries/`
2. Add test structure following the examples in [sample-test-pages.md](docs/sample-test-pages.md)
3. Run tests via Command Palette (Cmd/Ctrl + P):
   - `Query Builder: Run All Tests` - Run all query tests
   - `Query Builder: Run Test on Current Page` - Run test on current page
   - `Query Builder: Benchmark Tests` - Performance benchmarks
   - `Query Builder: List All Tests` - List all test pages

For detailed documentation, see [docs/TESTING.md](docs/TESTING.md).

## Nomenclature

There are some important terms to know and have exact definitions on since they will be used throughout the docs.

- `Page` - A Page is anything in Roam that was created with `[[brackets]]`, `#hashtag`, `#[[hashtag with brackets]]`, or `Attribute::`. Clicking on these links in your graph takes you to its designated page, each with its own unique title, and they have no parent.
- `Block` - A bullet or line of text in Roam. While you can also go to pages that have a zoomed in block view, their content is not unique, and they always have one parent.
- `Node` - A superset of `Block`s and `Page`s.

## Analytics & Privacy

The Discourse Graphs extension uses PostHog analytics to help us understand how the extension is being used and improve it. We take privacy seriously and:

- Do not track encrypted graphs
- Do not track offline graphs
- Do not automatically capture page views or clicks
- Only track specific user actions like creating Discourse Graph nodes, running queries, and using the canvas

This minimal tracking helps us understand how researchers use the extension so we can make it better while respecting your privacy.
